"This work proposes an improvement of gold nanoparticle sensors using mixed-ligand shells composed of ligands with a shared affinity. As a proof of concept, two ligands, 2-Sulfanylethanesulfonate (MSA) and 11-mercaptoundecanoic acid (MUA), sharing an affinity towards Ba2+ were chosen. The two ligands were then combined in a mixed ligand shell, and the Ba2+ sensor properties of both the mixed-ligand and mono-ligand shell nanoparticles were examined. The sensor properties of the mixed-ligand nanoparticles were then shown to be superior to both mono-ligand particles. The mixed-ligand nanoparticles retained a high sensitivity for Ba2+, while greatly improving the sensor linear range and selectivity. Next, nanoparticles stabilized by a mixed-ligand monolayer consisting of either MSA or MUA with a ligand unreactive towards Ba2+ were shown to have no reactivity towards Ba2+. This result indicates a cooperative effect between the MSA and MUA ligands and highlights the importance of the reactivity of both ligands for sensor optimization."
"Carbon monoxide has been recognized relatively recently as signaling molecule, and only very few dedicated natural CO sensor proteins have been identified so far. These include in particular heme-based transcription factors: the bacterial sensor proteins CooA and RcoM. In these 6-coordinated systems, exchange between an internal protein residue and CO as a heme ligand in the sensor domain affects the properties of the DNA-binding domain. Using light to dissociate heme-ligand bonds can in principle initiate this switching process. We review the efforts to use this method to investigate early processes in ligand switching and signaling, with an emphasis on the CO- trapping? properties of the heme cavity. These features are unusual for most heme proteins, but common for heme-based CO sensors."
"Two luminescent coordination polymers were constructed with a fluorescent ligand. The emissions of these compounds could be effectively and selectively quenched by acetone, showing their potential as acetone sensors. The formation of a coordination polymer structure is proven to be responsible for their strong emission and sensing properties."
"We have identified a ligand (CO) accommodation cavity in the signal transducer sensor protein HemAT (heme-based aerotactic transducer) that allows us to gain single-molecule insights into the mechanism of gas sensor proteins. Specific mutations that are distal and proximal to the herne were designed to perturb the electrostatic field near the ligand that is bound to the heme and near the accommodated ligand in the cavity. We report the detection of a second site in herne proteins in which the exogenous ligand is accommodated in an internal cavity. The conformational gate that directs the ligand-migration pathway from the distal to the proximal site of the heme, where the ligand is trapped, has been identified. The data provide evidence that the heme pocket is the specific ligand trap and suggest that the regulatory mechanism may be tackled starting from more than one position in the protein. Based on the results, we propose a dynamic coupling between the two distinct binding sites as the underlying allosteric mechanism for gas recognition/discrimination that triggers a conformational switch for signaling by the oxygen sensor protein HemAT."
"Electronic sensors capable of capturing mechanical deformation are highly desirable for the next generation of artificial intelligence products. However, it remains a challenge to prepare self-healing, highly sensitive, and cost-efficient sensors for both tiny and large human motion monitoring. Here, a new kind of self-healing, sensitive, and versatile strain sensors has been developed by combining metal-ligand chemistry with hierarchical structure design. Specifically, a self-healing and nanostructured conductive layer is deposited onto a self-healing elastomer substrate cross-linked by metal-ligand coordinate bonds, forming a hierarchically structured sensor. The resultant sensors exhibit high sensitivity, low detection limit (0.05% strain), remarkable self-healing capability, as well as excellent reproducibility. Notably, the self-healed sensors are still capable to precisely capture not only tiny physiological activities (such as speech, swallowing, and coughing) but also large human motions (finger and neck bending, touching). Moreover, harsh treatments, including bending over 50000 times and mechanical washing, could not influence the sensitivity and stability of the self-healed sensors in human motion monitoring. This proposed strategy via alliance of metal-ligand chemistry and hierarchical structure design represents a general approach to manufacturing self-healing, robust sensors, and other electronic devices."
"A modular ligand design allowed the assembly of four phosphorus-supported pyrene-containing ligands. The number of pyrene arms Could be varied from 1 to 6 depending on the phosphorus support. While ligands containing one and three pyrene arms are excellent fluorescence-based sensors of Cu2+, the ligand containing two pyrene arms shows a high specificity for Mg2+. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."
"Alkyl halides are potentially mutagenic carcinogens. However, no efficient fluorescent sensor for alkyl halide detection in human-derived samples has been developed to date. Herein, we report a new protein-based fluorescent sensor for alkyl halides. Analysis of the HaloTag holo-crystal structure with its covalently attached ligand revealed an unexpected cavity, allowing for the design of a new fluorogenic ligand. This ligand showed the highest fluorescence response (300-fold) and fastest binding kinetics (t(1/2) < 150 s) to a HaloTag mutant (M175P) protein. This protein-based sensor system was effectively used to detect alkyl halides in human serum and monitor real-time protein alkylation."
"Sensor arrays use pattern recognition for the identification and quantification of analytes. In the presented work, a gold nanoparticle (GNP) based optical sensor array was employed to classify and quantify seven toxic metals (arsenic, barium, cadmium, cerium, chromium, lead, and mercury). The sensor array receptors were GNPs functionalized by mercaptoundecanoic acid, 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate, and a 1:1 mixture of the two ligands. The mixed-ligand particle responds to the same analytes as the mono-ligand particles but in a distinctive way. This behavior demonstrates the high potential of mixed-ligand particles in the fabrication of sensor array receptors. The responses of the GNPs to different concentrations of the seven metal ions were analyzed, and a unique classification trajectory was produced for every metal. Samples of different metal concentrations were then measured and identified using the classification trajectories. Once sample composition has been identified, a PLSR model, produced from the concatenated sensor array spectra of four calibration samples for each nanoparticle, was used to determine the metal concentration. (c) 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."
An efficient two-step synthesis of pyrazoline ligand 1 is described which is an effective turn on fluorescent sensor for Cd2+ in MeCN. Oxidation to the corresponding pyrazole ligand 2 creates a turn on fluorescent sensor now selective for Zn2+ and able to distinguish it from Cd2+.
"A symmetrical tetradentate Schiff base ligand was derived by the condensation of the corresponding o-vanillin with urea. The synthesized Schiff base ligand was studied to characterize its ability as a cation carrier in poly(vinylchloride) membrane solid contact sensor. The constructed sensor showed excellent response characteristics to iron(III) ion. The electrode exhibited Nernstian slope of 19.5 mV/decade over a wide concentration range of iron(III) from 3.0 x 10(-6) to 1.3 x 10(-2) M with a detection limit of 1.2 x 10(-6) M. The sensor has fast response time, good reproducibility and excellent selectivity toward iron(III) ion with respect to many alkali, alkaline earth, transition and heavy metal ions. The potentiometric response of the sensor is independent of pH of the test solution in the range of 2.5-4.5. The applicability of the sensor was investigated by the determination of iron(III) concentration in pharmaceutical, biological and water samples."
"Heme-based oxygen sensors are part of ligand-specific two-component regulatory systems, which have both a relatively low oxygen affinity and a low oxygen-binding rate. To get insight into the dynamical aspects underlying these features and the ligand specificity of the signal transduction from the heme sensor domain, we used femtosecond spectroscopy to study ligand dynamics in the heme domains of the oxygen sensors FixL from Bradyrhizobium japonicum (FixLH) and Dos from Escherichia coli (DosH). The heme coordination with different ligands and the corresponding ground-state heme spectra of FixLH are similar to myoglobin (Mb). After photodissociation, the excited-state properties and ligand-rebinding kinetics are qualitatively similar for FixLH and Mb for CO and NO as ligands. In contrast to Mb, the transient spectra of FixLH after photodissociation of ligands are distorted compared with the ground-state difference spectra, indicating differences in the heme environment with respect to the unliganded state. This distortion is particularly marked for O(2). Strikingly, heme-O(2) recombination occurs with efficiency unprecedented for heme proteins, in approximately 5 ps for approximately 90% of the dissociated O(2). For DosH-O(2), which shows 60% sequence similarity to FixLH, but where signal detection and transmission presumably are quite different, a similarly fast recombination was found with an even higher yield. Altogether these results indicate that in these sensors the heme pocket acts as a ligand-specific trap. The general implications for the functioning of heme-based ligand sensors are discussed in the light of recent studies on heme-based NO and CO sensors."
"We describe a biosensor that reports the binding of small-molecule ligands to proteins as changes in growth of temperature-sensitive yeast. The yeast strains lack dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and are complemented by mouse DHFR containing a ligand-binding domain inserted in a flexible loop. Yeast strains expressing two ligand-binding domain fusions, FKBP12-DHFR and estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha)-DHFR, show increased growth in the presence of their corresponding ligands. We used this sensor to identify mutations in residues of ERalpha important for ligand binding, as well as mutations generally affecting protein activity or expression. We also tested the sensor against a chemical array to identify ligands that bind to FKBP12 or ERalpha. The ERalpha sensor was able to discriminate among estrogen analogs, showing different degrees of growth for the analogs that correlated with their relative binding affinities (RBAs). This growth assay provides a simple and inexpensive method to select novel ligands and ligand-binding domains."